♪ (light music) ♪
The chargemaster, also known
as the charge description master, or CDM,
is the list of charges
for the tens of thousands
of billable items at a given hospital,
sort of like a menu at a restaurant
but one that is very
long and includes reams
of almost indiscernible
line items and details.
The chargemaster is a master
list of all potential charges
that can show up on a patient's bill.
The amount listed for each item
is the amount of money that a self-pay
or uninsured patient is asked to pay
for a medical service or supply.
Very few people, other than the uninsured,
or those who self-pay would receive a bill
with the prices directly
from the chargemaster.
In general, insurance companies negotiate
for percentage discounts
off of the chargemaster,
so that the amount a payer pays
is always a significant
discount from the charge.
Also, since insurance
companies usually negotiate
a percentage savings from the list price,
this creates the incentive for a hospital
to keep raising its chargemaster rates
and for payers to keep pushing
for steeper discounts from those rates.
The chargemaster is generally used
as a starting point for
closed door bargaining
with different commercial insurers,
it is theoretically meant to relate
to both actual hospital costs
and payments to insurers
but the amounts shown are so inflated,
it is hard to see these connections.
A study was commissioned by the Medicare
Payment Advisory Commission, or MedPAC,
it found that healthcare
delivery systems decisions
about how and when to apply markups
to the actual costs on the chargemaster
vary widely based on an array
of idiosyncratic factors,
these include influence
of specific payers,
community perception, and
ill-defined competitive forces.
Hospital administrators may
defend charging practices
partially by pointing out that charges
rarely reflect what hospitals are paid
and that the variety
of insurance companies,
each with a variety of coverage plans,
add their fair share of complexity
in pricing and reimbursements.
While this may be true,
and patients rarely pay
the charges listed on a chargemaster,
this practice perpetuates opaque pricing
and adds unnecessary complexity
to an already complex system.
Clinicians do not set the prices
on chargemasters but they can advocate
for a more rational
hospital pricing system
and can help shine a
light on hospital costs.
A first step may be supporting systems
that provide full
transparency to patients,
these will be explored
further as we continue.